Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we are going to work on saving posts into our database.
So, for example, when the logged in user clicks on this create post button, we would want to save
their title and body values for these fields into our database as a new document.
Without further ado, let's jump into the action and make that happen.
Our first step would be to dig into this create post SJS template and make sure that we are aware of
where this form is submitting to.
So in our text editor within our Views folder, let's open up, create dash post, dot SJS towards the
top.
We see this opening form tag and for its action, instead of this placeholder hash tag, let's set it
to slash create dash post.
Now you might be thinking, isn't this the same route that the user is currently visiting?
Yes, it's the same string of text create dash post.
But when the user is viewing this in their browser, that was a get request to that you are out.
Whereas when this form submits, it's going to be a post request.
As far as our server is concerned, those are two completely different requests.
OK, let's go ahead and save this file.
And now let's jump into our router and set up a route for this.
So open up our router, not just file down here.
We see this comment post related routes.
So right below that we can just say router, top post.
Right.
This is a post request for the first argument, string of text, slash, create, dash post.
And then for the second argument, let's begin by protecting this route.
So you must be logged in.
We can just recycle or leverage are must be logged in function.
So user controller DOT must be logged in and then let's say comma and include another function that
we would want to run this time.
Let's look inside our post controller and in about ten seconds from now, we can create a function with
the name of create.
OK, let's save this file and now we better go create a function with this exact matching name of create.
So within our controllers folder, let's jump in to the post controller.
Down at the very bottom, let's add a new line and let's say exports dot create.
Let's set that to equal a function within the parentheses for our function.
Let's include parameters of request and response, OK?
And now within the body of this function, we just want to store whatever values they typed into these
fields, write the title and the body content and we want to store that in our database.
However, remember that any sort of data management should really be done within our model, not within
our controller.
So right now, let's go create a post model.
So within our models folder, I'm going to.
Right click on that and choose a new file.
Let's name this new file, uppercase P, let's name it post dot J.S..
Let's temporarily leave this file empty and let's jump back into our post controller and up at the top,
let's require in that model so let's say const uppercase post.
Right.
This is going to be our blueprint for creating post objects.
So const post equals and then just require in a file path.
So let's say dot, dot, slash to go up out of the controllers folder.
Then we want to go into the models folder and its name is Uppercase Post.
All right.
And then we can leverage that.
So within the body of our create function we could say let lowercase post equal a new instance of uppercase
post or our blueprint or model for what a post should be.
Within these parentheses, we would want to pass our blueprint request body, which will contain the
form data that a visitor just submitted.
OK, and then on a new line, we know that lowercase post is going to be an object and we haven't actually
created any methods within our blueprint yet.
But you can imagine that in just a couple of minutes we are going to create a method named create within
our model.
So let's call that here.
And we could set this method up to return a promise and promises can either resolve or reject.
So right after this, since it's going to return a promise, we can just say dot then dot catch, then
we'll handle things.
If the promise is successful or resolves, catch will handle things if it fails or rejects.
So within both of these lists provide functions, function, parentheses, curly brackets do the same
thing for sketch function, parentheses, curly brackets within our function.
For then here, if a post was successfully created, what we would actually want to do is redirect the
user to the new URL for that post and maybe have a green success flash message that says new post successfully
created.
But let's not get ahead of ourselves.
We can set that up here when the time comes.
For now, just as a test, let's just send back a response.
So response dot send that says new post created.
All right.
Within the function for our catch.
Well, we can imagine that when our promise rejects, it's going to reject back with an array of errors.
So within these parentheses for our function, let's include a parameter, let's name it errors.
And just for a temporary quick test within the body of the function, let's just say response stops
and errors.
All right.
Now, let's go ahead and save this file.
And now we better go make sure that our post model or post blueprint does indeed have a method named
create.
Right.
And it better return a promise.
So right now, let's jump into our uppercase P post JS model file.
We've got a clean, empty slate.
And let's begin by saying let uppercase post equal a function.
And ultimately that's what we want this file to export.
So at the very bottom, after that function, we can just say module dot exports equals uppercase post.
OK, now when our controller uses this constructor function to create an object, remember, we are
passing along request body, which is going to be the form data that was just submitted.
So let's receive that incoming argument with a parameter within our parentheses here, let's say data
and then within the body of our function.
Let's store that data within a property on our object so we can say this data equals that incoming request
dot body data.
All right.
Now, below this main constructor function, let's add a new line and let's create a method that any
object created using this blueprint should have access to.
So we can just say uppercase post dot, prototype dot and then we can make up method name, let's call
it create.
Right.
Because that's what we referenced in our controller.
So we better have a matching name here.
Let's set that to equal a function.
OK, and just like we did in our user model, we're probably also going to want to have methods named
clean up and validate.
So to save ourselves some typing, we can just copy and paste these three lines of code to create new
methods.
So copy that right above it, maybe just paste it in again.
So let's have a function named Clean Up and then.
Below that, let's paste in our clipboard again and let's have a method named Valide.
All right, now it's within our create method where we would actually store a document in the database.
But before we do that, we know that within this create method, we would want to call cleanup and validate.
So let's spell those out right now.
Let's start with clean up.
Let's begin by making sure that both the title and the body content values are strings, right.
We would not want to accept an array or an object.
These values must be strings.
So we then clean up.
Let's write an if statement.
So if parentheses curly brackets for our condition, let's say typeof and then let's pass that this
dot data dot title.
And let's say if that does not equal string, well, that would mean that it's set to something that
we do not want to accept.
So within the curly brackets, we could just overwrite that value.
So say this data, that title now just equals an empty pair of quotes.
Let's duplicate this line of code, so copy it and then right below it, paste it and let's just do
the same thing for the body field.
So change this the body and also change this to body.
OK, also within our clean up function, let's make sure that the user didn't pass along any extra bogus
properties in their form data.
So within the same function, let's drop down.
We can add a comment to ourselves to stay organized and say get rid of any bogus properties.
And to do this I would just say this data equals an object and then just manually spell out which properties
I wanted to have.
So title should be this dated title comma.
We should also have body and that should be this DOT data, not body.
So now if the user tried to send along extra properties that we would not want to store in our database,
we are essentially ignoring them or overriding them.
Right.
We are updating what this data should be.
While we're at it, let's add another property named Created Date.
Right.
It would be nice to know the date that a post was created on.
So we can say comma and we could just add a new property created date colon and we could just set its
value to be a new instance of a date in JavaScript.
There's a built in blueprint or constructor for date objects.
So this will return a date object representing the current time when this code executes.
That should be a useful piece of data to store in our database for this post while we're at it.
Why don't we also run Trem on our title in body to ignore any empty spaces at the beginning or end of
the values so we can say Trem do the same thing for body doctrine.
OK, that takes care of cleanup for now.
Now let's work on our validate function.
Luckily for us, validating this data is going to be a lot simpler than our user registration situation.
All we really need to do is make sure that neither of these fields are blank, right?
We want to force the user to type something into both of these fields.
So we then validate we can just say if parentheses curly brackets, if this data title equals just nothing
or an empty pair of quotes, well, then within the curly brackets, we would want to add an error message.
Before we do that, though, up in our constructor function, way up at the very top of this file,
right below line number two, let's say this DOT errors equals an empty array.
So square brackets, OK, now if there are validation problems, we can just push a message onto this
array, go back down and validate.
If there is no title, let's push on an error.
So this dot errors dot push.
Let's give it a message of you must provide a title to save a bit of typing.
Let's just duplicate this line of code, so copy it right below it.
Paste on this line.
Let's say if this data body is empty, then let's push a message that says you must provide post content.
OK, for now that's all we need to accomplish within our validate function.
Now let's actually set up our create function.
So within the body of create.
Remember, we want this function to return a promise because remember, we need to leverage this from
within our post controller.
So return a new instance of.
A promise within the promise parentheses, we give it a function, let's use an arrow function, so
parentheses and then arrow symbol and then curly brackets within the parentheses for this arrow function,
let's include two very important parameters of resolve and reject.
All right.
Within this function, let's call our cleanup methods of this clean up.
After that, let's call our validate functions this dot validate.
OK, now after that, let's check to see if our errors array is empty or not.
So we can say if parentheses curly brackets, let's drop down inside those brackets and right after
the closing if bracket let's add and else block as well for our if condition.
Let's say if this dot errors dot length.
So this would evaluate to true as long as our array has more than zero items in it.
So to check for the opposite of that, we can just place an exclamation right here.
So now we're essentially saying if that errors array is empty, well then this is where we would want
to store a new document in the database.
So let's write a comment here to ourselves and say save post into database, OK, but then within the
else block, that would mean that there are validation errors.
So here we would just want to reject and within the parentheses we could just reject with the value
of this DOT errors.
All right.
Now let's circle back to the if block.
If there are no validation errors, we want to save this post into the database.
However, so far, this file does not have any way of accessing our database to fix that.
Let's just go up to the very top of this file and up on line number one right before that, let's add
a new line and let's say const and then we can make up a name, let's call it posts collection and then
let's just set that to equal.
And now you might remember that we've already created a file, a reuseable file that will pull in our
database so we can just say require give it a file path.
So dot, dot, slash to move up out of the models folder into the root folder.
And we named the file DB.
So this file exports the Mongo DB client.
So then we'd want to work with that and call dot DB to get the actual database.
And then after that we'd want to say dot collection and the collection that we want to work with is
posts.
OK, now let's just go leverage this.
So back down within our create promise right below this save post in the database comment, let's say
posts collection, let's look inside it.
And we're interested in the CRUD operation named insert one within the parentheses.
We just passed this an object that we would want to store as a document in our database.
In this case, that would just be this DOT data, OK, not to complete this promise right below this
let's call resolve.
However, this is an asynchronous operation.
We have no idea how long it's going to take to actually store that in the database.
Now we know that the Mongo DB methods return promises so we could either use the then catch syntax or
the async awaked.
Now, in a situation where there's more going on and I'm trying to coordinate multiple things, I do
prefer async await.
But in a really simple situation like this where I'm just waiting for one thing to finish and then I
want to do one more thing, I actually think then catch feels cleaner.
So let's do this.
Let's get rid of resolve right here.
And we know that this will return a promise.
So at the end of this line, we can just say dot then dot catch.
Let's add arrow functions inside both sets of parentheses here.
So parentheses, arrow symbol, curly brackets.
Let's do the same thing for catch parentheses, arrow symbol, curly brackets.
All right.
Now, if Mongo was successful in adding that new document, let's just call resolve.
But if Mongo runs into an error of some sort, why don't we just do this?
Let's push an error message on to our array of errors so this errors push.
And let's just say please try again later, because if this situation ever happens, the problem has
nothing to do with the data that the user just entered.
And it has everything to do with some sort of server problem or database connection problem.
OK, now, after we've pushed on that error right below that line, let's just call reject.
And rejected the value of this DOT errors at this point, let's go ahead and save this file and test
it out.
So back in the browser, be sure to refresh the create post screen so that it's submitting to the Eurail
that we would expect for the title.
I will say my first post for the content.
I will say this is the greatest sentence ever written.
This is another sentence.
OK, let's go ahead and submit that.
So save new post.
We see the simple response of new post created.
And most importantly, let's go check our database within Mongo DB Atlas.
Here's my complex app database.
Previously it only had collections of sessions and users.
But if I click this refresh button here, cool, we see a new collection named Posts and if I click
on that, there's one document and there we see the title and body values that we just submitted.
We also see the created date fields.
However, there's one very important thing missing from this document, and that is the author of this
document.